Property observers in the framework are a very common thing, and the I probably change the interface
is used quite a lot.
However, there are situations where things get slightly more complicated and one of those situations
is called a bidirectional binding or directional binding.
So what is this all about?
Well, let me show you a very simple scenario where this shows up.
Let's imagine that you have a product.
So you have a class for a product and that product has a name.
So public string name or just do it like this.
And then you have a window where information about this product is shown, public class window.
So a window.
And it has let's say it has a lot of different controls, like edit boxes, for example.
And let's suppose that you have an edit box which is tied to a string which presents the product name
deliberately making those named differently.
So you have a product name, which is let's say it's an added box.
In actual fact, it's an added control.
So basically somebody can edit the product name, but you can also change the product name inside the
class itself, maybe because somebody has updated the database and all of a sudden the name changes.
So you have a kind of bidirectional dependency.
You basically want this value and this value to be the same value always.
And the question is, how do you do this?
How do you implement this?
Now, obviously, we already have the mechanism for property observers.
That's I notify property change.
So we may as well begin by implementing it in both product as well as window.
So that's how I NPC here.
I notify probably change, just generate the default implementation here.
I'm going to clean this up a bit so it fits better and you would have a similar thing.
Now let's not forget that you have to change the property itself.
At the moment it's just an automatic property.
We need to change it and use the change notification so it will become something like this.
Luckily, if you're using rechargeable rider, then all of these problems are handled for you.
We'll do the same thing for a window.
So once again, I notify property change to just generate the default implementation here, which uses
the call, remember, name trick, by the way.
And let's change the product name property to use change notifications like so.
OK, so now we have the set up and what we can do is we can try to get the two elements to subscribe
to one another.
Surprise, surprise.
So what is the idea behind this implementation?
The idea is the following.
Let's suppose you make a product so you make a product.
Let's suppose that its name is a book.
I'm just going to write a book here.
And let's suppose you have a window which presents information about this product.
So a window is a new window.
Let's actually make sure that we initialize the the product name with book as well.
So at the moment, we can guarantee that the product name here and the name here have the same value,
but how do we keep it this way?
How do we ensure that they are always the same value and when one of them changes, the other changes
in kind?
Well, the simple approach would be to simply subscribe to both of these events.
So first of all, we subscribe on the product.
So we say product got property changed, property changed, and we make a subscription.
So we make a proper subscription out of all of us.
And here we say, well, if the argument is name, so if it then talks dot property name is in fact
equal to name, then what we do is what we can output.
Just some debugging information so that we get to see that name was changed in product and we can say
window dot product name is equal to a product, not name, and you will do the same thing in reverse.
So now you would subscribe to the window.
So you would say window the property changed and you would once again perform this kind of subscription.
So here once again, you expect Ventas property name to be a product name.
And if that's the case, we can once again, S.W., that name is changed in window this time.
And then you would set the product name, product name equals window dot product name.
So we're attempting to synchronize to variables, to properties in actual fact.
So when the product changes, we update the window, when the window changes and we update the product.
So let's see if this actually works.
Now, I'm going to add a couple of two string implementations as well.
So I will go into product here and I will give it a two string implementation where well, let's just
output the fact that we are in product and here is the name of the product and I'll do a similar thing
for the window, except that in the window will specify that it's window and here it has to be product
name.
OK, so let's experiment with this.
Let's take a product and set its name.
So it's not going to be book, it's going to be a smart book.
Look for really smart people and then we can S.W. both the product as well as the window.
And let's actually run this.
Let's see what we get.
OK, you can see that name is changed in product, name is changed in window, and then the product
is Smart book and the window also shows my book.
So everything is working, everything is fine.
But your you might be surprised that it's working because remember.
Well, one of the questions you need to ask is why isn't this causing an infinite recursion scenario,
because you change the product and you update the window.
But when you call this, when you update the window, you change the window, which should update the
product, which should get you back here, back here, back here.
And you should get a stack overflow exception.
So why doesn't a stack of ortho exception actually happen?
The answer is in the change guards in these conditions.
So you'll notice that we only generate the property changed event if the value has in fact changed.
If the value is the same, then we simply return.
And this is precisely the mechanism that prevents infinite recursion.
So if you forgot to do this and we are lucky to have right to generate this for us, but if you forgot
to do this, you would in fact get infinite recursion and they stack overflow exception, probably not
something you want in your product.
OK, so this is a set up that actually does work.
We have synchronization between two properties, but what if you wanted to wrap this synchronization
into a separate object?
Well, if you want to have some sort of utility object for managing this kind of binding, now, we
already have this functionality as part of, let's say, Windows forms.
This is typically called binding.
And the idea is that you bind one variable to the value of another variable and then you use the identified
property change mechanism to make sure that they are in sync and binding.
That we are doing here is called bidirectional, because it goes both ways, because when he changes,
it changes B and when B changes, it changes A.
So let's see if we can somehow shrinkwrap this binding into a separate class.
So I'm going to have a public sealed class called Bidirectional Binding and it's going to be a disposable
so that you can sort of unbind things.
In actual fact, the reason why I want disposable is that I want to be able to sort of cancel the notifications
after I called this post.
So here I'll have a very simple implementation of this pose in the sense that we'll have a flag.
Let's hold it private bool disposed and when somebody calls this disposable, will just set this flag.
This post equals true.
And we'll use this flag inside our notifications so all the magic happens in the constructor.
But the constructor is going to be really complicated because remember, we want to be able to specify
what two classes we need to bind.
So we need to bind a class called first in a class called Second.
So two objects basically first and second.
But we need to specify which properties to bind.
So we'll have a first property on a second property.
So we need for arguments.
Let's see if we can find out the types of those arguments.
So let's have a constructor.
Bidirectional binding.
OK, so what is the type of the first object?
We don't know.
We could write object here, but this doesn't really help us because then we need to perform the subscriptions.
But we do know that these objects need to implement NPC, that I notify property change interface.
So that's going to be the first object.
And now we want to specify which property of the object we're actually going to buy.
Now, Windows forms does it using strings, but that's a bit outdated, to be honest.
We don't use strings anymore either.
We use the name of but in this particular case, we cannot use name of.
So instead what we're going to be using is expression trees.
So we're going to take an expression tree where we don't really care what type of object we're actually
receiving in this tree.
So it's going to be an expression of func of object and it's going to be an axis of the first property.
So basically somebody is going to write something like they're going to write a lambda which returns
X don't fall.
So it takes the variable X and accesses the property food.
And we're going to do the same thing for the second object.
So we have I NPC I notified property change for the second object because we know that it has to implement
this interface.
And then we also specify an expression of the object for the second property.
Yeah, we go OK, so now let's implement this construct.
And now there are lots of things that we need to ensure.
We need to first of all, ensure that the expressions, the property expressions are actually member
expressions.
So we need to ensure that property expressions, so X, X, X property is in fact a member expression.
So that's one thing that we need to make sure because X not who is a member expression.
So we need to do this.
And the second thing we need to do is to make sure that when you get food, that food is in fact the
property.
So we basically need to make sure that the member.
All of the above is in actual fact, so the member of this is a property info, it has to be a property,
cannot be a field, for example, because fields don't generate all of this wonderful.
I notify property change information.
So we're going to have lots of casts here.
So I'm going to say, if so, first of all, first property, the body has to be a member expression
no, first expert.
And we need the same for the second.
So we need a second property.
The body is no expression, second expression.
So that's the first set of requirements for what we need to get.
But that's not all, because now that we have these expressions, we need to make sure that the member
of those expressions are of type property info.
So if first expert, what member is property info?
First Propp.
And we need to import the info that's a reflection thing, and second expert, that member is property
info.
Second problem then and only then can we actually perform the subscription.
So this is where we would buy directionally subscribe.
So we would take the first object and would say first, our probably changed plus equals.
And then you've seen this before.
We've done this kind of thing before.
But now we also perform a check for the disposal because remember, we did this disposed thing.
So if the thing has been disposed, then we don't actually perform the notification.
So if not disposed, then a second prop, second set value notice we're using Reflexion API here, so
we're calling set value.
That's a reflection thing.
That's not a direct call.
So we passed the second object and then we take the value of the first property.
So first property get value.
So we're using reflexion to get the value of the first property and we're using it to update the second
property.
So that's the bidirectional side of things and we'll do the same thing in a different direction.
So second, property change plus equals generate this whole thing.
If not disposed, then first problem that first proper set value, first comma and then second property.
Don't get value.
Second now go.
So this is how we would set the whole thing up.
And now what you have is you have this binding object and we can start using it so we can take all of
this and we can comment it out because it's just too inconvenient now that we've wrapped everything
into a single object so we can make a binding.
We can say using var binding equals new bidirectional binding.
OK, so what are the arguments?
So we need to specify the first object which participates in the binding that's product.
We need to specify which property of that object participate.
So here is the expression, should we take product name?
And then the second object, which is window and once again the expression Trefort window dot product
name.
There we go.
This is how we can get everything together.
And now that we have this binding, when I call product name with smart book, that's going to already
be wired up behind the scenes and the same goes for Windows.
So if I say window, the product name equals really smart book.
Then when I run this, both of these should output.
Really smart book.
Let's actually take a look at that.
It is in fact the case.
So as you can see, that's exactly what we're getting here.
We're getting really smart book in both of these cases.
So whatever tempted to demonstrate.
Here is two things.
First of all, how to actually set up two variables so that they depend on one another and they are
kind of synchronized.
And that's one thing.
And notice, we managed to avoid infinite recursion, which is always a risk.
And the second thing is I've shown you how to actually wrap this in a separate class called a bidirectional
binding, which does it behind the scenes using a little bit of magic involving expression trés.